Source Files for Personal Website of Thomas Graf
================================================

This is the repository for my personal website.
The Master branch holds the source files, the gh-pages branch is used for the output files.
The source files are simple markdown files that are automatically converted to HTML5 via the Python-based [Pelican](http://docs.getpelican.com/) and then uploaded to Github with [ghp-import](https://github.com/davisp/ghp-import).

The setup is pretty vanilla in that I do not use any plugins or fancy extensions, except for [tagcloud](https://github.com/getpelican/pelican-plugins/tree/master/tag_cloud).
I made some modifications to the [blueidea](https://github.com/blueicefield/pelican-blueidea/) theme, and I rolled my own shell scripts to automatically convert my bibtex bibliography into 1) a nicely formatted list of publications and 2) individual blog entries for each bibtex entry.
Those scripts are in the `bib` folder, and their basic usage is explained farther down.


System Requirements
-------------------

If you're affiliated with Stony Brook University, you can download a [virtual machine image](https://drive.google.com/a/stonybrook.edu/file/d/0B09645QdWLiYUldGSGl5Tmx0Vm8/view?usp=sharing) that comes with all necessary packages pre-installed.

1.  Recent version of Python2.

1.  Pelican 3.6 or higher.
    Under Linux, this might already be in your repository.
    
    - In Debian Jessie you have to activate the backports repository to get a recent version.
    - In Ubuntu 14.04 (LTS) you'll need to find a ppa or use the Mac/Windows method.
    - On OSX and Windows (and Linux, if necessary) you can install Pelican via Python's package manager pip.

    ~~~~~
    pip install pelican
    ~~~~~

1.  The ghp-import script.
    Again you can install it via pip

    ~~~~~
    pip install ghp-import
    ~~~~~

    or use your package manager if you're on Linux.

1.  Python's typogrify library.
    As before, use pip or your package manager.

1.  A recent version of `pandoc-citeproc` (1.17 or newer) if you want to use my bibtex converter.
    

File Structure
--------------

Once you've cloned the repository, you'll see a couple of files and folders.
The most important ones are:

- *content*: the markdown files for the website
- *output*: the actual website generated by Pelican
- *pelicanconf.py*: contains various settings for site creation;
  for your own site, you'll want to change all the variables at the top, plus `LINKS` and `SOCIAL` further down.
- *publishconf.py*: allows you to override certain settings in the final creation phase;
  for your own site, change at least the value for `SITEURL`.
- *Makefile*: set of instructions for building the website;
  you might want to change the value for `GITHUB_PAGES_BRANCH` depending on your Pelican workflow

In addition, the *bib* folder contains a number of shell scripts (fully sh-compatible), and a subfolder with specific info on each bibtex entry.


Shell Scripts
-------------

All the shell scripts use mostly standard commands such as `cat`, `grep`, `sed`, and `awk`, and they do not use any bashisms.
The one exception is `bib2mdown`, which uses `pandoc-citeproc` to convert the bibtex file into a markdown file using the style sheet *mylanguage.cls*.
Since `bib2mdown` is called in one way or another by every other script, you absolutely need to have pandoc installed.

Here's a description of each script:

1. `bib2mdown` takes a bibtex file as input and returns a markdown file.
   The output produced by pandoc is pretty bad, so a major dose of sed magic is applied after the initial pandoc-conversion step.
   The following tweaks are applied:

     - add doi links
     - rip out all other links since doi is more reliable 
     - add link to pdf, if it exists
     - add link to detailed blog entry
     - list can be bulleted, numbered, or reverse numbered
     - remove remnants of Latex commands
     - fix some formatting errors

1. `bib2blog` produces a blog entry for a given entry in a bibtex file (with the help of `bib2mdown`).
   It automatically assigns it the right category (books, talks, or papers) and saves it to the corresponding subfolder (*talks* for talks, and *papers* for books and papers).
   It also checks whether there is a folder with the same bibkey in `auxfiles`, and loads the abstract, tags, and date from the files in this folder, if it exists.
   It also looks for an archive with the source code in `doc/talks` or `doc/papers` and adds the corresponding link.
   All of that is then put together into a nice entry

1. `create_bibliography` takes two bibtex files as input, one for publications and one for presentations.
   It then uses `bib2mdown` to produce the Output page of the website.

1. `create_bibkey` runs `bib2blog` for every bibtex key in a bibtex file.

1. `compile_references` runs `create_bibliography` and `create_bibkey` on my bibtex files.
   If everything is configured correctly, this is the only script that needs to be run, all others will be called as needed.

All scripts except `compile_references` take command line arguments and can be altered via various options.
Just run them with ``--help`` to learn more.
You can also change the variables at the top of each script to adapt it to your use case.
