Title: Locality Domains and Phonological c-Command over Strings
Author: Thomas Graf
Date: 2018-05-28
Category: Papers
Tags: phonology; syntax; locality; subregular; c-command

<div markdown class="authors">
Graf, Thomas
</div>

<div markdown class="abstract">
<span id="abstract-title">Abstract</span>
A lot of recent work in computational phonology seeks to pinpoint the complexity of phonotactic dependencies from a formal perspective. Numerous mathematical classes have been proposed, but Graf (2017) subsumes them all under the umbrella of *interval-based strictly piecewise dependencies* (IBSP). IBSP treats all phonological structures as strings that are subject to non-local constraints. Every local dependency is reanalyzed as a non-local constraint that is restricted to a locality domain of bounded size. If all phonotactic dependencies are IBSP, then we should only encounter phenomena that are either local or non-local, but not both. I show that this prediction is not borne out: several attested phenomena combine local and non-local information. However, a more relaxed notion of locality domains allows IBSP to produce these patterns while avoiding overgeneration. The make-up of these relaxed locality domains bears a striking resemblance to c-command in syntax, supporting the idea that phonology and syntax may be closely related on a computational level.
</div>

<div markdown class="files">
<span id="files-title">Files</span>
[[pdf]({filename}/doc/papers/Graf18NELS.pdf)]
</div>

~~~latex
@inproceedings{Graf18NELS,
    author = {Graf, Thomas},
    title = {Locality Domains and Phonological c-Command Over Strings},
    year = {2018},
    booktitle = {Proceedings of {NELS} 2017},
    url = {http://ling.auf.net/lingbuzz/004080},
    note = {To appear},
}
~~~
