Title: Computational Lessons from and for Language
Author: Thomas Graf
Date: 2016-04-28
Category: Talks
Tags: phonology; subregular; syntax; derivation trees; open problems

<div markdown class="authors">
Graf, Thomas
</div>

<div markdown class="abstract">
<span id="abstract-title">Abstract</span>
Barely any task is more challenging and more effortlessly carried out by 
humans than the efficient use of language. Within a couple of years, 
children figure out a learning problem that even computers with large, 
extensively annotated training sets fail at. On a daily basis, we hear 
thousands of sentences and within split seconds assign them highly 
elaborate structures whose complexity matches and even exceeds what we 
find in protein folding or the specification of programming languages.
The conundrum of language is that all research and all our theorems 
point towards it being a very hard computational problem, yet for humans 
it is no more difficult than jumping on one leg.

In this talk, I present recent research that suggests ways of resolving 
this contradiction. The central lesson is that complex structures are 
simple structures in disguise. I illustrate this idea with concrete 
linguistic examples, and I show how the formal insights can be 
generalized beyond language. In the other direction, I also highlight 
open complexity issues in linguistics where supercomputation may prove 
indispensable for finding simpler solutions. These issues can be tackled 
with the tools and techniques that already exist today, we just have to 
step up and actually do it.
</div>

<div markdown class="files">
<span id="files-title">Files</span>
[[pdf]({filename}/doc/talks/Graf16IACStalk.pdf)]
[[code]({filename}/doc/talks/Graf16IACStalk.tar.gz)]
</div>

~~~latex
@Misc{Graf16IACStalk,
  author	= {Graf, Thomas},
  title		= {Computational Lessons from and for Language},
  year		= {2016},
  note		= {Invited talk, April 28, IACS, Stony
		  Brook University, Stony Brook, NY}
}
~~~
