Title: The Surprising Simplicity of Syntax: Derivation Trees, Subregular Complexity, and What It Implies for Language and Cognition
Author: Thomas Graf
Date: 2018-11-26
Category: Presentations
Tags: syntax; phonology; Minimalist grammars; locality; subregular; c-command; tiers

<div markdown class="authors">
Graf, Thomas
</div>

<div markdown class="abstract">
<span id="abstract-title">Abstract</span>
It is a well-known fact of computational linguistics that syntax is 
mildly context-sensitive and thus highly complex --- certainly more 
complex than phonology or morphology. This complexity is at odds with 
the ease of language acquisition and the impressive speed of human 
sentence processing. If syntax is so complex, why doesn't this 
complexity cause any issues?

In this talk, I argue that syntax is actually remarkably simple from a 
computational perspective if one picks derivation trees as the central 
representation/data structure. In this case, syntax becomes 
subregular. Subregularity is already known to play a central role in 
phonology and morphology, where it has led to new learning algorithms 
and typological generalizations. Derivation trees allow us to extend 
the subregular approach from these domains to syntax. This has 
intriguing repercussions for

1. the cognitive architecture of language, and
2. the relation between Merge and Move, and
3. the difference between movement and constraints, and
4. efficient parsing via sensing tree automata, and
5. learning from positive data via limited semantic bootstrapping.

This shows that the subregular approach to syntax has great potential 
for language science broadly construed: theoretical linguistics, 
cognitive science, and language technology.
</div>

<div markdown class="files">
<span id="files-title">Files</span>
[[pdf]({filename}/doc/talks/Graf18Penntalk.pdf)]
</div>

~~~latex
@misc{Graf18Penntalk,
    author = {Graf, Thomas},
    title = {The Surprising Simplicity of Syntax: Derivation Trees, Subregular Complexity, and What It Implies for Language and Cognition},
    year = {2018},
    note = {Invited talk, November 26, Integrated Language Science and Technology Seminar, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA}
}
~~~
